it's it's caused a lot of friction
especially in high school and
especially in college like i'm in the
middle of college right now and
i mean people all they want to do is
party dude
i just i just want to play hearthstone
that's all i want to do
welcome friend oh thank you thanks for
having me
it's uh it's good to be here yeah thanks
for thanks for coming so help me uh
let's start with what do you go by uh my
full name is
dominic but people call me dom so okay
so dom and and what are we talking about
today what's on your mind um
uh the biggest thing uh and i saw the uh
the stream subject it was a computer is
slowly ruining my life
okay and that's that's kind of
i guess that's the biggest that's the
tip of the iceberg and i guess we're
gonna explore
deeper down as we as we go through
okay so that's interesting because you
said it's the biggest
and you said it's the tip of the iceberg
that's true i did say that most obvious
how about that okay
yeah so so it and i'm hearing if you're
if we're gonna dig down dom
what i'm hearing is that maybe like you
said you kind of said that's
that's what you see like the behavior
that you observe is that you
you the computer is slowly ruining your
life
yeah yeah it's it's like it's not
just computer it's the computer is kind
of like the mode of transportation
to a lot of things uh i mean it could be
comic books it could be manga it could
be
netflix video games i mean reddit it
does it doesn't matter
i i label the computer because
that's what i use to get to my fix you
know okay
so help me understand what what why do
you
say that the computer is slowly ruining
your life what does that mean
um i think i think the biggest thing
i mean by that is i have a lot of goals
outside
of electronic things uh
i want to learn bass guitar i think my
bass is in frame yeah i'm trying to
learn bass guitar
funny enough i need to use the computer
to learn bass guitar
i want to learn how to play right
skateboard a lot of
academic goals and sports goals i run
track and field
the university and it's
it's hard it's hard to run a track
practice on little amounts of sleep when
you're gaming all night
so
okay um
so it sounds like you're not happy with
yourself for not being able to achieve
your goals
yeah yeah there's a there's a lot of
frustration
um can you hold on just one second there
we go
i just realized i forgot to switch over
the overlay so people haven't been able
to see you
until now oh unlucky i'm not right
we fixed it thank you now now chad can
see me
you know prior to the computer we have
this boomer device called a phone
and sometimes my my team has to contact
me
it's like it's like a miniature computer
that can do very few things
dude that's that sounds really useful
and helpful
in your pocket it it it's like a device
that can solely do voice chat
well you can you can do dms sort of we
call them texts
whoa crazy kind of like emails kind of
like
short emails yeah it's like a short
email exactly yeah
um so you sound uh
oh a little bit frustrated that
you're you're not sort of achieving your
goals
yeah uh a little bit is kind of an
understatement um
there there are times when because i
used to i used to think i didn't have an
anger
and i used to kind of just like bury it
in a sense or maybe just ignore it not
kind of bury it because
it kind of just explodes but when
over the past year it came to points
where i just had nothing to do and i
didn't want to play video games
but i didn't know how to do anything
else right i didn't know how to go
skateboard
i couldn't practice space because i
didn't own one um i couldn't start
journaling because i didn't own any
journals
right so like the only thing i could do
while in quarantine
after i finished my homework uh was play
video games and
i guess when it came to the point where
i like acknowledged my anger
at myself um i don't know how to play
piano and i'm frustrated with that you
know i'm not
i'm not getting the grades that i wanted
to so i'm frustrated with that you know
i'm not
running the track and field times that i
wish i was you know and i'm frustrated
with that
it kind of just explodes and i got you
know i got to go take a
steaming walk outside and make sure it's
uh well steaming isn't i'm steaming
uh what what anybody explodes
well it kind of like my face gets red
um i can't focus on one thing
like i'll think about one thing that's
upsetting and then i'll just think about
the next thing then i'll just think
about the next thing and i'll just think
about the next thing
and it kind of just gets out of control
and all of a sudden i'm not thinking
about
what i initially thought about right and
all of a sudden i'm angry at my parents
or i'm angry at
politics or i'm angry at youtube or i'm
hanging angry at
the current smash bros meta right like
it doesn't matter
what it is i just i get just frustrated
with stuff
yeah yeah sometimes you know i'll joke
about people becoming
anger elementals
yeah and and what i'm sort of noticing
is that your anger will
find something like you feel the anger
and it seems like
it's looking for some kind of outlet to
latch onto whether it's parents or
the meta in a video game and that each
thing that you engage with
with like actually like boosts up the
anger more
yeah yeah yeah definitely that's it
that's a good way to put it
so help me understand um don
okay let me just lay a couple things out
okay so here's what i think we can talk
about
um you know i want to better understand
what
what it means when you say like computer
games are ruining your life
because what i see is you know you're
like
you seem to have a touch of the chad
within you like you're
in school you run track and field you
know
you're learning like you have a bass
guitar it sounds like you're not very
good but that
you know you're you know there's there's
i can imagine i know it sounds kind of
weird but like i can imagine that a lot
of people who are walking
uh watching would actually like envy
certain parts of your life and wish they
could do what you wanted to do
yeah so i'm curious about you know how
video games are ruining your life
i also think that we may wind up talking
a little bit about
you know two directions which is like
where does that anger come from because
it seems like
the anger can choose to get mad about
any sort of thing
and what we tend to do is we say when we
get mad about something that the thing
is where the anger is coming from
but if you like you know if you have
someone who's emotionally angry
they can get angry about anything and it
actually if you really pay attention it
seems like the anger is not
caused by politics or the smash brothers
meta
but that those are triggers for the
anger that's already inside
so we may talk about that and the last
thing that um
really i think this could be interesting
is we can try to understand like
why do you have these goals in the first
place like where do goals come from how
does our mind decide
hey i want to do this thing because what
you're doing is you're kind of setting a
goal for yourself and you're buying
yourself frustration
by not achieving it yeah
yeah it's a like a discounted price of
the anger ticket i guess exactly right
so that's a great that's a great way to
put it so what
does that sound okay to you do those
topics seem like they would interest you
or
be honest maybe okay i mean especially
because it's like
how i've seen i've seen streams i've
watched i love this i love this channel
dude this place is
this is not a cult no matter what uh
chat says
but i'm part of the dr k colts so
there it is it was a pro cult face
phrase there is of course and
so yeah i know how these streams can
kind of go
where we didn't even expect it so it's
like as long as we just get going and
get rolling
let's do it i'm telling you pumped and
excited how
are computer games ruining your life um
they i use them i use them to cope and i
use them
to use them instead of things that i
wish i was doing
that includes the talents and the things
i'm working on that includes hanging out
with friends or going on
with dates and i don't like playing
video games
as much as i used to um and
when i say as much as i used to i wanna
i wanna like go into that
like explain that a bit because uh
although i have a little bit like
sure like i have a touch of the chad
within me um it's it
i was the lucky one in my family to get
the chad within me
none of my friends none of my brothers
or sisters are athletic
uh my dad uh
actually i can't play basketball
ironically
because when i asked my dad to
teach me how to play basketball he said
he didn't know how to either then he
just took me inside and showed me his
gamecube because he loved gamecube
right and then we played rts's online
and dawn of war lord of the rings battle
for middle earth i mean
what all the age of empires uh
that i just gamed with him that's how we
bonded right
so video games kind of became
that thing for me right i
wouldn't just a quick question
why the the when you say it's ironic
that i can't play basketball is that
because you're black is that what you're
saying it's hard to see something there
uh there's a touch of it it's all jokes
have it's like a pie chart right so it's
like i am black
i'm athletic um i'm tall i'm like six
three and i have big hands and everyone
always assumes
i play basketball okay okay so it's not
just the color of your skin it's also
your height
and yeah i just wanted to understand why
why
is it ironic that you know a gamer can't
play basketball
i just lost me there yes i people people
i mean people never see me as a gamer
right they never
they never pictured me to be that guy
you know
um funny funny thing
well when i when i was a kid um i moved
into this new area and i was hanging out
with a bunch of guys
and these people were talking about
naruto and
one of my good friends today he wasn't a
good friend then because i was just
meeting him
he turned to me he's like don't pay
attention to those losers right he
literally said that
i was like dude what's wrong with naruto
like that show's sick and all the
losers like freaked out they're like oh
this guy knows
and he's one of us he's one of us
and uh it's funny though
he looks like a chad he had the heart of
a weeb
dude oh no i i try not to be a weeb
i try not to i can't sorry it sounded
like you're about to say something
important i couldn't help myself
well it kind of like it kind of goes
into
another facet of like why video games
and manga
and anime and comics are ruining my life
because
although like once i said like what's
wrong with naruto
all the chads in that group like
immediately dismissed me
like immediately like oh he's one of
them right not one of us
one of them and
throughout the school year like they
just they didn't invite me out as much
as they did
within that first week of me meeting
them
um i kind of hung out with those losers
quote unquote
um but their schedules and their
motivations and their goals didn't line
up
so much with what i kind of wanted to do
with my life
so i ended up just distancing myself
from that group
without having a connection to any other
group and i kind of just ended up alone
you know i kind of just
ended up playing video games by myself
for a long time
um and it that that kind of happens
uh a lot throughout my life and
it's that weird balance between being a
weeb
and being big gamer reddit mode
reddit chad uh
and kind of just being a normal person
quote unquote right
um it's it's caused a lot of friction
especially in high school and especially
in college like i'm in the middle of
college right now
and i mean people all they want to do is
party dude
i just i just want to play hearthstone
that's all i want to do
how do you feel about yourself for just
wanting to play hearthstone
dude at times like a loser i'm like dude
i really am a loser like what
what the heck i can't not go out right
or i can't not stay in
um i mean a couple weeks ago i like
binged all of attack on titan in like
three days
from friday to sunday instead of doing
anything else
including working out right um and that
like i i skipped
i got sent workouts by my coach for the
summer he's like hey use these
uh and get in shape and i just stayed in
watched anime all day at night and
i'm super ashamed to it i know he'll
never watch this so i can say it
i mean i ended up lying to him on monday
i was like yeah i did the workout and
these were my times
this is what i did
i just felt super ashamed and angry at
myself for that right
like not only can i not just go work out
because the workout only took like an
hour and a half right i can
pause attack on titan for an hour and a
half and come back and watch it right
but i mean i apparently didn't then
you'll lose the race
of watching attack on titan within a
whole weekend before anyone else and
then it's just like
i even watched it and it's it's not done
right it's not caught up to the manga
immediately as soon as the last episode
ended i just hopped onto my manga
website and just read the rest of it
like i just i couldn't not stop i needed
to consume
the whole thing
and then i was done you know and it's
it's kind of with everything right uh i
read the boys all in one weekend the
comic out there
like the boys in berserk are two two
comics that i read when i was relatively
young
when i was like 13 14. and those are
pretty heavy manga and comics to read
you know heavy subject heavy
concepts and i just read it all in a
weekend even though it's like training
on me mentally
and i just and like looking back now
when i think about my 13 year old little
brother i was like dude
i don't even want him to think about
berserk right it's just such a
kind of graphic subject matter
and i even though i felt drained
reading it i just flew right through it
i needed to right
i wouldn't allow myself to not stop
what does it mean to need to consume
what does that need
it's it feels like
at times like i i'll end up looking at
myself i'm like man i'm just a machine
like i just i input these i input this
material whether it's the primal tv show
right the cartoon network samurai jack
or adventure time or anything and
i log it right i catalog it like oh i
know all of this stuff
i know all the lurthering fun facts
right i know all the harry potter
secrets
and then i just move on to the next one
you know it's like i
i feel like i'm just trying to fill
something that i can't be filled
you know when i look back at it when i
when i'm in it when i'm in the mode
i'm just enjoying it right i'm watching
it i'm just doing what feels natural
you know and it's in a sense and like
i'm like oh just watch just watch just
watch
when i look back i'm like man what did i
just do like i just skipped workouts for
this
i just it's going to be there right it's
going to be there in 10 years
watch it then you know don the way that
you're
talking about it actually makes me think
about addiction
so what you're describing to me like
actually reminds me of like
patients that go on benders
you know like like and they kind of like
wake up
the next like you wake up on wednesday
morning and you kind of look around and
you're like oh my god
where did where what happened where did
my
time go what have i been it's like it's
sort of like there's like a very cloudy
awareness
that feels like primal and hedonistic
you know and then and you're not really
like you just need to consume it sounds
very
you know base to me yeah yeah
i can definitely see it like that
especially
i mean it's like the hangover gamer
edition right i guess
like it just
i don't text people while i do it i
guess as well like i just
like if someone reaches out to me i like
won't respond
or i'll say like sorry i'm busy doing
something else
and what goes through your head when you
say sorry i'm busy
not much it kind of just
like that's it like i just say like
sorry i got it
like i don't want to it's not saying
like man i gotta think of this
convoluted plot to convince them i'm
busy
it's like i i don't want to go hang out
with them so i'm just going to tell them
i'm busy
yeah not not so much like oh i got a
front that i'm so active outside you
know
yeah so i i know it sounds kind of weird
but
you know what what do you think it is
that you're trying to fill up
with all of the anime
um it could just be time uh
it's always come to a point like the
reason why i'm reaching out now
in a sense is because i've never before
skipped workouts
to watch anime or watch a show or play
video games
or read a comic i've always been able to
like
parallel them within my life you know
keep them separate like i got to work
out now i got to get up for 4 a.m
workouts so i'm going to bed at 8 30
right i'm gonna
i'm gonna do what i need to do to make
sure my outside life
is successful um
within the past within the past year
it's kind of just
spiraled out of control you know yeah
and a lot a lot of it could be
because like school canceled and
workouts were canceled i was like dude
all the time in the world to play video
games like i can do what i've been
wanting to do
since i was 11 years old and
man again i just consumed like i just i
got this game
called vermintide 2 for my dad for my uh
for birthday present
and i just played the heck out of it i
mean all summer i just played and played
and played
and then i got guild wars 2. it like it
doesn't matter what kind of game
you know like whatever game i just get
attached to
slay the spire played a lot of like
i'll get it for one weekend and i'll
play it for like
30 40 hours within five six days
and then i'll kind of get sick of it and
then i'll move on and
i mean perfect example is this last
christmas break when school was a thing
so in
2019 to 2020 christmas break
um i bought myself a christmas present
of
uh star wars knights of the republic one
and two
and for those two weeks i i spent
like 41 hours on the first game and then
the next week i spent like 36 hours on
the second game
i just beat it and i just played right
through and then like
i'll like look at like snapchat like
instagram and i'll be like seeing all
these people going on trips
and hanging out with hanging out with
each other and like
hanging out like down the street right
they're hanging out in the city right
next to i live
i'm like man it'd be fun to it'd be fun
to uh go hang out
i'll just continue to game right i won't
even reach out to them
i like i'll get angry at them for not
reaching out to me
i'd be like oh i wouldn't be playing
this video game if they reached out to
me
you know and like these guys love me
they would be so down to hang out with
me if i reached out to them
like i get in this point where i'm like
angry at them for not reaching out to me
so i like
just continue playing you know
that makes sense is that is that a makes
a lot of sense
can maybe i can share with you what i
heard and then you tell me if it makes
sense
so i i am getting the sense that you you
really do have like almost like this
kind of
compulsion kind of thing where like
you'll you'll sort of like willingly
kind of
dive into this right and you'll come up
for
air like a week later and then it it's
in those moments of like
when your head breaks the surface of the
water and you're like looking around
that you're like oh
hold on there's a life that exists
outside of this
and then you'll kind of blame yourself
for diving underwater for so long you'll
blame other people for not pulling you
above water
there's like some amount of
self-loathing like you know you'll blame
anything and everything for
putting you into these situations and
then you take a deep breath and then you
play cotor2
yeah right that's well put that's why
you're the doctor man the cult leader
i mean you're the one who shared it bro
i'm just
repeating it back um
and so what do you think it is that you
know what goes through your head between
kotor 1 and kotor 2
um or is that is that really was it was
there not did you not come up for air
between those two
yeah i don't think i came up here
between those two i mean it just
and the the problem is is i those games
are
some of the best games of all time i
freaking i love those games and i
recommend them to everybody
i bought them for my cousin because i
was like yo dude you need
this game and it's like i enjoy
the things i do like these binges i
enjoy the the characters
i enjoy reading like i read the
invincible comics
like when i was like 18 and i read them
all in like
a week like again a weekend and i just
loved it and
then the show came out and i was like
dude i'm so
pumped and it's actually actually a
funny story because i was hanging out
with a girl and i was scrolling through
youtube
and we were talking and i could like
tell like things were moving to a point
of like
physical intimacy right and then i saw
the trailer for invincible
on youtube i was like there i have to
watch this like you
are going to be put on pause for like 10
minutes so i can watch this
and then i then i think jk simmons was
like the voice act i was just losing my
mind i was like there's
and i ended up nothing happening because
i was so worked up on invincible in this
new show coming out and it was it's just
a funny thing
kind of just like how my priorities like
shift to like these
these mediums of entertainment you know
whatever it is
don i'm getting the sense that you're
kind of stuck between two worlds
like yeah yeah uh
continue sorry sorry i was just agreeing
with you
how tell me about that
um
and again you guys know i'm i run track
and field and it's not that i just run
track and field like i'm
i'm pretty good and i have a lot of
potential
and i mean like putting it say i
wouldn't be able to pay for college
without track and field you know
like without it's basically like a job
and it's not
only it's
it can be a lifestyle there's people
and new people who would go to college
just to be the track athlete
at their favorite college and
to me it was always kind of just like
something that i saw and i was like
that's weird that they
care about track this much and
then i would come you know come to these
binges and i come out and kind of be
jealous
of them right because they're going to
the parties they're
you know like them just running track
and field is like what they
desire and what they strive for right
and me being blessed and talented
at kind of just being a means to the end
a means to an end
right i just i feel like what's
like i want to be part of that right and
like like we've kind of pointed out
before it's like
so i'll try to push myself towards that
right but it'll be friction and it'll be
kind of unwanted because i've never been
a partier you know i don't drink i don't
smoke i don't
know do anything like that and kind of
just trying to like fit myself in these
placeholders and like
cause
um
when i think about it i'm really
really close with my family and i'm
really close with
friends that are like like family you
know um
and i think when i when i kind of self
analyze myself like that's where a lot
of this is coming from
uh my fam they game that that's my thing
that's my family thing we have this huge
land room in our living room where like
there's four pcs set up
and all of us have steam accounts and
all of us buy these games and we'll just
play from
like 3 p.m to 2 a.m right we'll buy
terraria when there's a
when it's on sale and we'll just grind
and we'll just play it and play it and
play it
we'll order pizza it doesn't matter
that's just
what we do and
it didn't it didn't like really occur to
me like how unhealthy that can be
uh for kids because i mean i started
doing that when i was like 11.
i when terraria first came out like my
dad and i played terraria until like
3 a.m for like four nights in a row and
that's one of like some of the greatest
memories i have with my dad you know
but when i think back to him like i'm a
nutrition major right i'm learning about
how
important sleep is for young kids i was
like holy cow what was my dad doing like
why didn't he just tell me to go to bed
and we could just play in the morning
you know
and i come back and i see i see my
younger brothers doing that thing
the same the same type of patterns and
safe type of things and like going
through the same struggles
i went through you know as a teenager
and a lot of that's just teenager
struggles right
it's tough being a junior high kid um
and i get angry right like like like
like like we said earlier i get i get
mad
and i also get mad that like that's how
we
again like that's what i care about like
i care about my family
that's how we bond you know why does
that make you angry
um a big thing
is because i've put so much time so much
of my time
as a youth into
these useless games like on war 3 is one
of the greatest
rts games of all time in my mind right
and i put
hundreds of hours into it like i look at
them think of myself like what if i put
hundreds of hours
into like drawing right or theater
or bass guitar or skateboard right
something that would something that just
doesn't
leave me empty you know something that
kind of just drain me like it does and i
get mad
because i get mad that i didn't have
the supervisors or like the adult
supervision to
ward me against that you know and i i i
don't have a problem with video games in
moderation
like but when i go through these binges
and i go
and i look back how many hours i've
wasted on cs go
like that's just it's so pointless
right i'm not i don't want to go pro why
am i spending so much time on this
like i could be doing literally anything
and it's like i could be reading you
know i've so
i've bought so many books i've gotten to
like the last four chapters
and then like i just fizzle out you know
don it sounds to me like you've wasted a
fair amount of your life or lost a fair
amount of your life
yeah yeah it's a it's a big
it could be especially especially from
ages like 10
to like 17 i just as so my parents got
divorced when i was
10 years old and
they
it's hard seeing your parents go through
divorce
when you're not old enough to kind of
understand why you're not young enough
to like just accept it as is you know um
it's it's hard seeing like kind of
seeing your parents
break down because you have these these
like immortal pictures of your parents
in your mind and then seeing them just
kind of be
human and like worthless in your mind uh
like again i just like there was one
time
my dad was like feeding us you know fish
sticks because that's all he had and
he just couldn't stop shaking because of
how sad he was and i remember like
looking like
like he like that's so like that's so
sad you know i just thought that and
then my mom kind of just
reclused herself right and i guess
i guess from that point like it's where
these
i just kind of threw myself into video
games and i we had the lurthering discs
at home the lord movie discs i just
consumed all of it
i went through every special features i
went through every second of the movie
and i watched every little bit of it
i did that with like every movie i ended
up going through like this
because back in the 2000s right we had
these huge cd
cases or like these little pan flips
like
cd books right and i would we had tons
of them and i would just watch
over and over and over and i'd went
through every single one of them it
didn't matter what it was right
i remember watching uh live laugh love
when i was like 10 years old or like 11
years old
and it's super chick flicky movie but it
just it didn't matter to me
right it was like that's the next one
next cd
right and it's like thinking back i'm
like wow like that's that was a
real girly movie but
don what was it like
what did you understand about your
parents divorce can you
um i just understood they were splitting
uh they're pretty volatile at times
and i under i i knew within myself that
it wasn't good
like what was going on um
and that that's about it i didn't
you know when they uh i feel like every
kid
like secretly has like the good guy
in their mind when parents get divorced
um unless it's just outright bad or it's
actually done really well um
what is it a good guy like
uh the the aggressor in the divorce and
like
the one who's getting the short end of
the stick right or the one
once you did nothing wrong in your mind
the villain right the villain and the
i see the villain and the hero so who is
the who is the villain
and who is the hero in your parents
divorce
for me like i just saw them both as
villains in a sense like it i was like
this is
like there wasn't both of them
had their issues right like i can see
that and i was like this
like i don't like this i don't like this
at all you know
i wasn't like oh if mom would stop
yelling at him or if like
if dad would stop hitting her like like
like my dad
didn't you know do anything super
destructive and it's like
there was no moments like oh like i need
to protect so and so in my mind right or
like i'm gonna put up it's like i kind
of just like that's like this is bad
this is not good i don't like any of
this
you know what what was in your mind
i don't remember a lot of it i remember
feelings you know the feelings of it bad
but like a lot of it was kind of
not blocked out or forgotten but i don't
know i just i remember
like few key moments i remember watching
my dad walk out of the house
from the window and his friend came and
picked him up
um
and that's that's about it from like it
was like
from ages like one to
like eight i remember
you know just being a normal kid growing
up playing ghost in the graveyard
outside
um and then
again like those few key things i
remember going on a trip
with my dad when they were still
together so my parents were still
together
i went on a trip with my dad to montana
and my mom didn't want to come with us
i remember that and i remember being
weirded out by that like my mom and my
older sister like stayed home
like why it's a family trip we should
all go um and it just didn't make sense
to me
um and that
and that like those few big things and
like a general feeling of like
i don't like this like i don't like this
uneasiness i don't like this tension
i don't like how quiet the house is you
know or things like that
and what were things like after they got
divorced
um
you know physically it was pretty
weird uh going from one house to the
other
i didn't like that very much um
it was also weird because we moved
within the same neighborhood
so like my parents my mom the original
house was right here
and then my mom just moved like two
streets down
so we're so my dad kept well
how initial out initially what my dad
left
and was staying with friends and we'd go
to the friend's house
and like spend time with his with his
friends or
with him and then my mom ended up
leaving the original house two doors
down like two streets down
then my dad ended up moving back into
the original house
and like i'd we'd just walk back and
forth
like the weekends and it was really
weird because i mean he was just down
the street
you know and like mentally in my mind he
was just down the street but like we
couldn't go see him
i couldn't go hang out with him and that
was kind of weird it was also weird
because he didn't have like any
furniture
so it was just like an empty house and
we got we got pretty poor at times
because like one time like the water was
turned off
and like i had to go to the neighbor's
house and ask for water so we can like
pour it into the uh
into the toilet so we can flush that was
that was really gross all the time
especially if like my younger siblings
didn't tell us they used the restroom
because they just forgot and i was like
oh and i'd come to an awful surprise
um
then then we moved again my mom moved
again
like down the street to like another
apartment
and like the reason why we did this is
we wanted to stay within the
neighborhood and
stay within school right we didn't want
to move schools sure
and then my dad ended up moving
all over the place all over the state we
lived in
and again i just i didn't didn't like it
i didn't like going to different houses
for the weekend
i didn't like the fact that like we
couldn't just get back together
right because i remember watching mrs
doubtfire
right and like thinking to myself i'm
like wow like
they're just so good for each other they
should just get back together right
that's what you kind of think when
you're a kid you're like
robin williams is such a hero right then
you know they
now i look back i'm like well they
didn't end back together because you
know they're adults and they make their
decisions
um as a kid i kind of really didn't see
that i was like
just say sorry figure it out right like
let's let's raise above
our sinful states i guess
what's wrong with that with wanting to
raise above
yeah i don't think there's much i don't
think
there's much to the desire but kind of
like my reaction it kind of just made me
angry like again it just made me
upset that they weren't doing what i
wanted right
it made me angry say that with them that
you wanted them to get back together
um i don't think so
uh we didn't there wasn't a lot of
parent-to-kid communication
i should say i should say there wasn't a
lot of mother-to-son communication
or father-to-son communication there was
a lot of parent-to-kid communication as
in they fed me
they kept me warm they kept me clothed
right they made sure i was in sports
they sent me to school but i mean when i
would come home from school
i'd say like how was your day i was like
sick it was fun super pogers
right then i just sit on the computer
watch some movies and then i wouldn't
see them again until dinner
then we'd have some dinner and i
wouldn't see them for the rest of the
night
you know how does your dad feel about
your gaming
um just sees it as normal
i feel about his gaming yeah i don't
like it
i don't like it at all i don't like kind
of
any of the family gaming because i can
see i see my
again like that period where i just go
hide in the computer
i see that in my younger siblings you
know i see that and what
is going on with them and i'm like dad
like that
that's your kid man go talk to him i'm
like
oh have an argument and then next week
make up
and then next week have another argument
right and then make up and then
develop that kind of bridge between them
you know
and i'm confused who's who's having an
argument
are you saying that you argue with your
dad or that your dad should argue with
the kids so that you guys would kill
your relationship
you should argue with the kid to build a
relationship right
um i said argue but it could be like
anything go talk with them go
do anything um like where we are now
is like my dad will be playing a video
game
and then
my two younger brothers will get in this
huge fight and then one of them will
start crying and then my dad's attentive
he's like what's going on
right what's what's happening right and
then he has to play catch up for
everything he wasn't paying attention to
and then it just you know ends up
and the thing is we live in like we i
used i don't live with them anymore but
we used to live in like a two-room
apartment so like
everybody in the room had to pay
attention
to the argument that was going on with
between
like the discussion and there are times
like six of us in a two-room apartment
so it's like
you get a lot of emotions and i don't
know and i like seeing that now
i'm like either a
the argument would be avoided because
my dad would be able to nip the problem
behavior of one of the little brothers
in the butt
or the aftermath
of trying to discuss the argument or
discuss the problem
will be a lot smoother because my dad
kind of understands where
the younger brother is coming from or
the the slightly older brother is coming
from
don how does your mom feel about your
gaming
um she doesn't care either because i'm
able to keep track and field up
right she's like as long as your grades
are good as long as you are performing
at sports
like you can do whatever you want on the
weekends right
um how does your mom feel about your
dad's gaming
yeah you know i don't think she
understands kind of like how much
because they don't they don't know what
goes on
in between the homes right they don't
they don't know what goes on
in and home um
and i know she doesn't she does not like
a lot of the things about my dad
um and i there's just a lot of
there's a lot of residual anger between
both of them
that to me seems childish do you think
that
your life would be better if your dad
did a better job
i mean it's
it's hard to see it's hard to say yes
because i don't want to say yes
because my dad tried that's
that's the hard part he
he was raised a nerd i mean he was
raised he
his dad my grandpa was a huge star trek
fan
huge i mean and he
he worked for nasa he had tons he was
just that guy right that
that 70s nerd dad right and my dad looks
up to him
and i look up to him like you know
there's no other
and i think my dad kind of tried to
replicate that sense of
wonder in these imaginary worlds
within me right whether it was star trek
or
star wars or dune right he was a big
dune fan
um don does your dad have a job
um i he just got rehired um
poet's done a lot of hard stuff to him
the kind of
habits that he had right it kind of
really doubled down on these habits that
he already had build up
and they kind of just took over his life
in a sense um
what about so you guys had the water
turned off
again floating through um
what does that mean floating through uh
he's like
he was kind of like a contract like he'd
do side jobs for
uh x amount of money and then he'd be
okay for a little bit and then
he'd end up doing this one acting gig
for x amount of money then he'd be okay
for a bit and then he'd do this one
computer thing
and then he ended up getting a job then
got screwed over in the job and then got
a new job right and then
at times like he'd be working like two
or three jobs and it's
it's really it was really volatile and
he never
again one thing i'm super thankful is
like he never gave up
right he never gave up on us and
he ended up he like he got food on the
table he
paid for what he could right whether the
water turned off or the gas was turning
off
he always made sure we had blankets we
always made sure we had
pillows and mattresses so it's like
again it's hard for me to say yes i
think he would have done better if he
did a better job but we could say that
about any parent right
i can say that what i can say is i know
he tried his best
or how flawed he is you know
and i love him and i love him so much
for that
right and the the greatest thing the
greatest thing about it is i'm not
biologically his kid
um he he married my mom when i was about
two years old
so he kind of he kind of stepped up and
picked up this extra weight right and
when the parents got divorced he offered
to pay
child support for me as well even though
legally he didn't have to because i
wasn't his kid
so it's in my eyes
the greatest honor a man and a choir
is picking up the slack of another
worthless man
you know and in regards to their kid
and that's what he did you know as
flawed as he was
he gave me an awesome childhood he
spent as much time as he could with me
whether you know whether he developed
this
video game addiction right whether he
helped facilitate that
you know he he loves me i mean
i'm a 6'3 black guy right but he's he's
a 510 white nerd right
and he looks at me
like i'm his son you know and he hugs me
like i'm his son
and i love him eternally for that
i you know i i can acknowledge his flaws
i can say how messed up his habits are
you know i can say anything
but it'll never you know give away that
love that he gave me
and that love that i offer him
it sounds like a real hero
yeah yeah
it's interesting it's interesting when
you mentioned you know he was white i'd
already i
you know i'd assumed that he was your
biological dad yeah
yeah and i like the i'm sorry
i can only imagine how much more
challenging it is
to accept a child that
clearly everyone knows is not your child
and so how much more he
deserves our respect yeah yeah
um i like to call ourselves the jigsaw
family
because i have a i have an older sister
who has her own dad
another older sister who has her own dad
and then me has my own dad and then the
three younger siblings all have the same
dad who's the guy i call dad
um you know and again dude it's like
i have so much love for both my parents
because
my mom i mean that does not sound like
an easy family situation
to mother right that's a lot of ties
and that's a lot of emotions and
my mom never gave up on us you know she
did so much for me um
she's she's the reason i run track and
field because after
seventh grade my first year running
track and field i wanted to quit because
i was like this is hard
running sucks like i gotta i gotta work
out i gotta sweat
i gotta get tired and she pulled over
the car she's like you are running track
whether or not like before i die right
or something you know she said something
super dramatic
and she saw it because it was the only
way i was getting to college right we
couldn't pay for it
getting to college without student loans
um
and now she didn't she didn't really
teach me how to do homework very well
uh she didn't i took a lot of her
procrastination within myself right
and a lot of her bad habits within
myself but you know
just like my dad like as flawed as he is
and as flawed as she is like i'm only
running track and field because she made
me
and i have that chad within me because
she made me
you know i have a future an education
and
college because she made me she did the
mom's job and
so it's like again i don't have hate for
my parents i have nothing but love
and wholesome you know
hog champs from i think it's more than
love
i think that's what makes this heart
because once again what i'm kind of
detecting don is that you're a little
bit stuck between two things
so you said that the greatest thing that
a man can do is to make up for the
failings of another man
yeah it's like it's pretty it's pretty
uh
big greatest honor i think is what i
said i like to say the honor
you know kind of nightly yeah so i kind
of wonder don are you making up for the
failings of your dad
what do you mean by that i mean so when
i asked you
you know a little bit about what you
thought about your dad you kind of said
i
was like you know could your dad i don't
remember exactly what the question was
but it was sort of like a
could your dad have done a better job or
do you think your dad let you down i
asked some question like that right
given you a chance to poop on dad and
i was like would you like to poop on dad
and you were like it's hard to say yes
right you said i don't want to say yes
you didn't say no
right and then and then we kind of
touched on then what you started to do
quite gallantly may i add is
rush to dad's defense and so
magnificently
because who can possibly think that
you're there's anything wrong like the
dude is
he's a white five foot ten nerd who's
raising
who calls the six three black kid his
son
and genuinely loves you as a son like
how can
how can we toss any shade on on that guy
right yeah yeah and and i
i get that there's a lot of genuine love
i get that your dad went above and
beyond and like deserves
a ton of love and respect
and at the same time you face certain
challenges
and when you get angry i think you get
angry with your parents
what i heard over and over again is you
didn't like it
and it felt it was weird and you didn't
like it
and i think that there's like there's a
you know
an adult within you who can understand
that
you know adults have problems and
sometimes divorce is what it comes down
to
and that like on balance they did a
fantastic job your mom
you know helped you get into track and
field your dad gave you a love for
gaming your dad gave you love in general
and so like on the pro and con column
like your
your parents both win overwhelmingly so
but when i hear about your struggles
there's like an understory here that i
think part of the reason that you may be
stuck is because like you're not
willing to acknowledge it
right i mean like when you you kind of
it's it's interesting because you said
that you used to be able to keep the
external the reason you reached out now
is because
you could keep it in check you said that
you used to be able to keep your
external life and your internal life
parallel but i'm still hearing that
there's like
one foot in two different lives
you know and i think that i know this
may sound like one of these weird like
spiritual positive things that no one
knows how to do
but as long as you you're living two
parallel lives like dawn it's never
gonna work
right like you can't be like you have to
live your life and like i know it's kind
of weird cause you're like how do you
we'll get there
so there's a lot of practical stuff here
but like you know when when there's the
losers
and the jocks and you're like
you know halfway between those two
you know you you can't i don't know i
mean i think there's needs to be some
kind of like
internal resolution about the life that
you want
and i think some of that stuff is
i mean i'm not out to make your dad seem
like a bad dude i mean clearly he's
you've played the ultimate ace card in
terms of
you know no one can ever think your dad
and i i i i
mean like you know it's it's sort of
like 50 of a joke but like
definitely i mean he gets away with a
lot if he does that
yeah right yeah yeah and so the reason i
kind of bring it up is not to like put
badness on him but like to acknowledge
that the things that
hold you back are all the
like all the things that he gets a pass
for
can still negatively impact you and what
we're talking about is you it's not
i'm not out there and i you know i know
i do this a lot where people like
i get people to [ __ ] talk their parents
it's not that like i'm not trying to
[ __ ] talk your parents
yeah it's that we need to understand
that like your dad is propagating
probably like
quite unhealthy behavior
in all of his kids which
all parents do right he's not unique
they're like i propagate on healthy
behavior in my kids
that's impossible i don't even say that
dude so my kid will wake up at 7 30 in
the morning
and she'll try to come wake me up and
then
and i'll like like she'll grab the ipad
and she's like dad can i
can i be on the ipad and i'm like yeah
sure absolutely
so you know it's terrible but the first
45 minutes of her day or like spent on
like you know
melting her brain on youtube which is
not what you want for a five-year-old
oh no but we all propagate bad behavior
in our kids like i'm not a perfect
parent there's no such thing
and the challenge for you though is it's
not about
bashing your parents for blame it's
about understanding what is the
impact that you have to deal with and as
long as we're giving your dad a pass
and we're ignoring his effects on you
then like how are you going to fix them
yeah you know and so and so i i get why
you
it's not bash your dad stream
yeah and you know he really does sound
like a truly
amazing guy like no doubt in my mind
and at the same time like you know
you're a nutrition major and like
you're starting to learn a little bit
about the world and you're beginning to
realize that like maybe some like fish
sticks and
you know gaming till three a.m you said
you guys did that four days in a row so
like was it summer vacation or was it
like
dude it was probably spring break it was
okay i mean
it's good especially even if it's just
like a friday
if there's if they're like it kind of
gets the point like if there is no
responsibility
that i have to equip equate to tomorrow
right i'll show up to tomorrow
i'm gonna throw away right now you know
that kind of that's kind of like how it
lines up you know and like the more i
learn about habits right
building habits we are our habits right
i'll know
i'll never be rid of this until you know
i get rid of that
habit of throwing away my night
if i don't have anything at 8 a.m the
next morning right i should just go to
bed
right or something like that you know so
you know when it was spring break when
it was summer vacation or anything
he would do that as long as we didn't
have anything to do tomorrow
yeah so let me ask you
you know don i don't know exactly if
this has been helpful
yet but
you know i i certainly feel like i
understand you a little bit better and i
think it'll like clarify i don't know i
don't have a clear sense of
let me just think for a second
why do you want to play bass guitar
dude i think
personally it's the sexiest instrument
known to man um
when i was getting into music
um because you know when you're when
you're a kid you always listen to what
your parents listen to
so when i turned
you know 1314 i kind of you know started
touching my own music i was listening to
these kids or listen to music at school
you know whatever they were listening to
and i went through a lot of stuff i went
through like a little bit of an emo
phase like mcr because my crush was
faith lap and she hit the
you know she was emails like i gotta
listen to this stuff you know
um then my 10th grade year i started
listening to like
my own music like things that i really
liked
and a lot of it was bass guitar uh steve
lacey
plays a lot of bass guitar and he plays
his own bass fit thundercat was a huge
one
i love thundercat tyler crater has some
really good
bass lines in his songs and
i just i didn't understand it was bass
until i started looking into the music i
was like oh that's
that's the bass that's the bass line um
then my best friend's dad um
he asked me out of the blue he's like
you play bass
i was like no like oh that's that's
[ __ ] like
every black person can play bass you
could play bass and then that kind of
like solidified it for me as like okay i
need to learn to play bass right now
so i can prove this guy that i can play
bass
i'm sick right and so along with like
all my love for music
you know so it kind of it was kind of
like a two-factor humor sense and
actual love for the bass
okay so don
okay can i think for a second please
please
so you've watched a fair number of our
streams
yeah yeah i always usually turn tune
into the vods
okay so like you're familiar with like
the concepts and stuff that we
discuss yeah yeah i watch a lot of the
youtube channel as well
okay so like do you know what a sum
squad is um
refresher please okay so like sometimes
we have
emotion that gets
so when our mind experiences emotion
we can either bury it or process it
okay and generally speaking a lot of the
emotion that gets buried
then manifests later in life in
particular circumstances
so what i um
i'm gonna try to like put together
i'm gonna try to like summarize what i
understand as your situation
and i'm gonna give you like a couple of
options
okay
give me just a second
dawn you know it was interesting when
you were telling me a little about
yourself you know when i
when i mentioned that it seems to me
like you're stuck between two worlds
it's interesting because what i was
thinking about you are you have any
experience with d and d
yeah yeah okay so like you know i almost
said you seem to me like a half elf
because you're not in the human world
and you're not in the elf world
my characters are always half works my
characters are always half works
even better right so so like
and i'm really glad i steered clear that
because like i i almost
because given the the racial dynamics in
your family like i'm glad i didn't call
you just something like that
really dodged a bullet there really but
but but
i i i do get the sense that there's
there's really like
in so many different ways man like you
were stuck between two worlds
it's like do you become a jock or do you
become a nerd
you know like like do you play bass
guitar like you can't play
basketball but you're gonna learn bass
guitar
so you're gonna take advantage of your
racial bonuses
you know like absolutely and and so like
you know there's just so much there
about you know i think who you're trying
to be
[Music]
that and and i think that that's gonna
so if if your problem
you kind of come up with this problem of
like i spend too much time on the
computer
and we can call that escapism we can say
it's due to like some
internal conflict or whatever but i'd
say the reason you spend too much time
on the computer is a couple of things
one is i do believe that there's like an
addictive
aspect to it so like straight up like
like what you're describing to me sounds
like a dopaminergic
binge where you're just like you know
you like you need to get that dopamine
from like attack on titan what's gonna
happen next what's gonna happen
i have to know i have to know i have to
know you kind of get caught up in it
the other interesting thing is that
given your upbringing
one of the things that we've discovered
from studying addictions is that
generally speaking the earlier you get
exposed
the more powerful the addiction so
um you know when we look at things like
pornography addiction like there's a
very good chance that
people who are exposed to pornography at
like a very young
age will be more likely to be addicted
to it the same is true
for like alcohol and cigarettes and
marijuana and stuff like that
so you know if you start smoking pot at
the age of 12 it's like
way harder to kick than like if you
start smoking a pot at the age of 50.
so there's some stuff around developing
brains and and building habits and stuff
like that
so i i do think that there's like a
dopaminergic aspect
to your behavior which can be kind of
addressed on that level
but i i also get the sense that you know
when you're choosing between two goals
what i'm really getting the sense of is
that there's like this conflict about
like who you want to be
it's like who does don want to wind up
like does he want to wind up being a
weeb or does he want to wind up being
you know black guy who can play bass and
because generally speaking we don't
think about those people
as the same kind of person which is why
i think the next thing to really
understand if we had to summarize who
you are
you're the chosen one
i'm the main character yeah you're all
side characters
so so it's it it's it's like and this is
where like i i think a lot of this is
gonna come from
really a lot of like introspection about
you know where do your goals
come from are they your goals
or are they the goals that come from
either
part of your human and your elven
heritage
and i i sort of get you know i i think
the you know the story about how you got
into base
i'm sure will upset a lot of people for
a lot of reasons but i think it's like a
great story
right genuinely speaking it's it's when
it come
you know our racial identity forms so
much of like who we are and what we
choose to identify with and stuff like
that i think you know i'm i'm
brown i'm indian and so i you know i did
wind up becoming a doctor and i do do
yoga so it's sort of like
you know i have racial advantages there
um so i think it is there's an element
of truth to
that but i i think what i'm sort of
really getting from you is that
a couple of different things one is you
know you're stuck between these two
worlds and i think a lot of the goals
that arrive in your mind that you
fall short of are not truly your goals
i think as you really make them your
goals and you sort of deal with that
addiction piece
then it'll help so like as they truly
become your goals as opposed to like
societally imposed goals that'll help
you achieve them and then you've got
habit and dopamine related stuff that
you've got to overcome for sure
the last thing is from an emotional
standpoint you know this is where
i'm sure we could ask you more questions
but like
i i think that they're you know it seems
like the primary thing that you feel
towards yourself is like
anger and frustration and where do you
think that anger and frustration comes
from
i think a big thing can come to be like
me
not being what i think i should be in a
lot of aspects right
um
it's i get when you when you met like
mentioning porn like that's a that's a
huge thing for all young adults right
especially young males like that i hate
it right
and i hate that i you know could be
addicted to porn
especially growing up as a teenager like
a lot of that anger
you know you get that post-nut clarity
it's just so it's so hard you know
post-nut depression
is not a it's not a healthy thing to
move on about it's
hard to talk about right no one wants to
talk about their own
struggles with that but i'm telling you
now because that to me
is the clearest point of like where my
anger could be coming from like that
self
loathing from what i could be right i'm
like i'm not there
i'm right here and i'm angry about it
and it's my fault
you know you just lost me a little bit
sorry what is this stuff about post not
depression
uh so there's there's a joke right
you're
you're you're watching some sus material
online
and you know you fit you you climax and
then you you get
you open your eyes you know you come
over the water and you're like this is
gross stuff like i do not like this
right
that's usually post not clarity right um
post
depression is just the depression you
feel
of being attached to this being tied to
it all right being tied to the computer
the pornography um
it's it's it's just it's really just a
joke like a play on words
um right yeah so so are you saying that
in the post not clarity you're able to
see that your life is
not where you want it to be like are you
clearly able to
because like you're free of all of your
like like coping mechanisms and stuff
like that
oh yeah yeah definitely i mean that's
yeah yeah
okay so all right sorry i just i
was a little bit confused so so you're
you know it sounds like you're
angry at not being what you think you
should be
yeah yeah and i mean especially this
last year
it's also like angry at what i was um
because i i gained a lot of weight in
quarantine
and track and field is a lot track and
field's base is about the strength to
weight distribution
how strong you are versus how much
weight you're carrying around
and i gained like 25 pounds
and a year and even a little less than a
year
and that was like not good weight either
there was a lot of
binge eating and just garbage and
right now where i am i'm in between
well i just look back at my high school
life right my
freshman years i'm like man i was so in
shape i was so
much more fit than i am now i need to be
more fit than i was then right like
that's so i put myself so much further
back
than the goal i i wanted i want you know
and you know then anger and sadness and
all the emotions come through
okay can i process that for a second
please please go ahead
what do you think is gonna happen to you
dawn
um where are you headed
if you asked me that a year ago
i would have had this huge awesome
five-year plan
right i'm gonna go graduate college go
on this religious mission
come back you know run professionally
uh kick butt you know
um but my life and my plans have all
changed so rapidly
and i'm unsure you know i
can tell you what i want you know i can
tell you what
my metaphysical my frontal lobe says i
should want you know i want
a solid nutrition job pro runner
shoe contract deal right with adidas or
nike or something
smoking hot wife you know amazing you
know backyard
barbecues fourth of july barbecues you
know um
then you know there's that you know that
other side the other the other world the
other life
um kind of just saying like dude like
you don't need to do that you can just
you're charming guy you're handsome
you're athletic right
become a twitch streamer do it do what
dr k does right
talk talk to the people right play video
games change the world through video
games right or something like that
and there's that kind of
pull between like like you said the two
two feet and
two worlds okay
so don got these two dreams right
let's call one of them the twitch stream
or one of them
adidas whatever adidas chad yeah
today is july 16th it is a friday
the weekend is coming up if you spend
the weekend watching
anime what happens to your progress
towards each of those goals
it decreases it goes back incorrect
there's no difference
right so like how many to get to the
life of your dreams how many days does
it take
uh we're gonna graduate from college
we're gonna go on our mission trip
get a smoking hot wife become a
professional runner land an adidas
contract how much time does that take
a lot of time uh you know years how many
years
um probably take about four
at a minimum right
yeah so four years is like
1300 days sure
if you take a if you take a break
for three days what difference does it
make
see i see i see what you're saying i get
it
right so what's the cost of you spending
a week or two playing kotor two
coach or one and two
well you know you could look at it you
know grand scheme is saying like oh it
doesn't cost much in the grand scheme
but
then within these little little deals
right i didn't go spend time with my
friends
playing culture until i didn't go
outside much i didn't spend time with a
lot of my family you know
i guess that is the cost that's the cost
with
yeah now we get to a really tricky thing
which is which way does your brain look
at it
so your brain calculates behavior right
it calculates to engage in a behavior or
not engage in a behavior
when you have five years to do something
which way like you know i know it sounds
good actually i'll just sort of
say it but like your brain calculates it
in the long term not in the short term
which is why procrastination is
conserved across the human race
right so if you have a month like no
one's studying for a test that's one
month away
and like if you think about it you know
if all like not all but you know 90
the human beings that have not been
conditioned or built
habits to start studying 30 days before
the test
the default human behavior is to wait
until the last minute
and i think your biggest issue and this
is where like it doesn't matter which
world you're stuck in because in either
case like what's the cost of a weekend
is absolutely nothing
and this is why our generation is
screwed from weekend to weekend because
what's the cost
nothing it's just a couple of days
there's more days
what's gonna happen seven days from now
you're gonna get another weekend
you can do it then
and i i know it sounds kind of weird but
like you know i i think there's a lot to
like understanding
you know your internal conflict and
stuff like that
i do think there's a lot to understand
about your anger towards yourself
because that i think is is to a certain
degree like related to
[Music]
a lot of anger that you have from other
places and you're kind of taking it out
on yourself
so so this is sort of where like you
know you're you're upset with your dad
for helping you get into this situation
right like do we want to we want to
forgive him sure
on balance did he do an awesome job
absolutely
and like don't tell me because when
you're walking around and you're
steaming right like who are you blaming
myself and your parents
you said that earlier it did i did say i
was getting angry at my parents
and and what what kind of thoughts does
your mind produce
yeah so like can you give me an example
of like what in what way you get angry
with your parents
parents specifically i just get
get jealous of my friends and their
parents um
good tell me what are you jealous of
between your friends and their parents
stability that's a big one my
in my area it's really low divorce rate
in my area
and get really jealous
i mean because again it's like that
adult side of you tells yourself right
you're like
every every you know past problems you
know every family has issues
right but then you know my kids side
looks i'm like man i'd rather have those
issues
the issues they're having and the issues
i'm having right
what especially yeah go ahead sorry i
was gonna say especially when i get grow
closer um just saying like uh it takes a
village to raise a kid
right or raise a whatever that was
really
really true in my sake um
outside of my own family i have like
four families where i could just walk
into the door
right and they'll say like oh hey dom
and you know they already have a plate
set up for me
right um and i'm really close and really
thankful for those families so i know
kind of their family issues i see
the sibling arguments i see the parents
doing whatever
um when i was a kid
to answer your question like what
specific issues when i was a kid i just
hated having to move
from week into weekend especially when
my parents moved further away
i couldn't see my friends on some
weekends just because i didn't have a
car
my parents were at work we can't we
can't make the 40-minute drive
down to such-and-such city go hang out
with your friends right you're just
gonna have to sit and
hang out right and i hated that and i
was like man i wish i was the whole
family family's just in one spot
right another one is kind of just
reassurance that your parents love each
other you know
um don't take for granted like if your
parents truly love each other
um that's a wonderful example to you
about true love right as a for a kid
and i kind of really didn't have that
growing up you know i didn't have that
golden globe of like this is what a
marriage could be this is
this is what you could produce like look
at that look how wonderful this family
is
right we have all these kids and they
are married now and you're getting
nieces and nephews
and we're all here spending time
together uh my family can't really do
that
you know and i just i get angry and i
get jealous and i just get
sad you know because not only do i want
that
there's the realization that i truly
don't have that i have to go to sleep
with that knowledge you know i have to
wake up with that knowledge i have to go
to fourth
like going to two christmases as a kid
sounds like a cool idea right
two two birthday presents dude the pain
of driving away from one of my parents
homes from christmas morning
and seeing them wave on the sidewalk
just tears me up inside especially as i
get older especially because i'm the one
driving my siblings around right
you wake up at my dad's house and
having to say goodbye to a parent on
christmas morning
go to another christmas morning is
sickening and i hate it
and seeing the pain in their eyes
because they love us right they don't
want to be alone on christmas morning
they don't want to be alone
anytime and
going 11 years like that it's just so
draining and i don't think
people you know they don't acknowledge
those moments within the divorce you
know they don't acknowledge
those 15 sentence 15 second interactions
that you have nightmares about and it's
just
it's awful
yeah man it's it's you know i know we
so like there's i think a bias in
western society
towards like the individual
over the unit so generally speaking
you know there's this sentiment that
it's better to have
two happy people that are divorced
rather than
raise a kid in an unhappy marriage
which as a psychiatrist i mean i have a
bias in terms of my sample size right
because the people who come to me are
the ones who are a little bit unhappy
i'm not so sure that's actually the case
though
i i i when i hear stories like yours and
the problem is basically
every story of divorce that i've heard
i'd say
easily eighty percent are like yours
where it does actually and this is
something that i think is a
is something that gets propagated like
you know parents will tell themselves
all kinds of things
to justify being able to get a divorce
and they can't tolerate the idea that
like this could actually hurt your child
and we as a society sort of say that
divorce doesn't hurt children whereas
i haven't seen that i've seen that
just about in all cases divorce does
hurt
children i'm not saying that it's not a
good idea to get divorced i'm not saying
that there aren't
good reasons to get divorced it's just
i'm the one you know the kid walks into
my office
20 years later and and so that's just
what i see
um but i i think it's it's kind of
dangerous because like when you said you
know
everyone thinks two christmases is good
oh man that can
the most consistently terrible thing
that i've heard
from kids of divorced parents or
holidays
never do you feel so trapped so there's
no way to make every anyone happy
and it's it's just it's a it's just [ __ ]
for everyone involved
and this this time that's supposed to be
like happy and celebrating
ends up being just like painful for
everyone and it happens every year
and even especially with all the
marketing it's just
it's bad continue sorry i mean it even
gets to the point where sometimes i'll
you know when i work with like patients
like we'll even have to set limits so i
have some patients that over time
have grown to actually tell their
parents
i actually can't come home for the
holidays anymore and see either of you
because the toxicity is just so high i
don't have the bandwidth for it
i'm gonna just be by myself during
christmas and i will come and visit each
of you for one week at a time and we're
gonna hang out and i'll fill you in but
i just can't do it during the holidays
because there's just no peaceful way to
do it it's crazy
uh where things end up but kind of
coming back to you don i mean here's
what i think like
so there's a lot of that anger pent up
frustration with your self frustration
with your
your parents i think the more that you
acknowledge that i think the better off
you're gonna be
um not to say that you i mean i think it
does sound like you
you know you feel it and stuff but i i
think the real issue here and i want to
talk a little bit about goal setting is
that
so when you look at your life and you
say i wish it wasn't like this
i wish it was this and then you build
together this five-year plan because
you're
you know you have a touch of the chad
within you your chad touched
not fae touched not fien touched your
chad touched
all right um you're
you're a chad touched half work totally
totally
and and and so then what happens is your
mind still builds these
kinds of like goals for you you're like
okay i want to be a twitch streamer i
want to be this i want to be this
um look at the chad drinking milk yes
this is strong strong bones it's not
like an energy drink
no no [ __ ] so so
that's a lesson for everyone who's
watching by the way you're gonna
you know i'll i'll do one more
um so i think that one of the
you know i think when it comes to your
goals and what you want to do
but what i would say to you don is to
really think a little bit about a given
day
and don't think about the goal but ask
yourself in a weird way like
who do you want to be today like do you
want to be
someone who i know it may it may bring
up the self-loathing but i'd say
actually tackle it
head-on and sort of you know ask
yourself like as you're about to watch
like what are you gonna do this weekend
don i'm asking it's a genuine question
yeah yeah yeah
uh my buddy's getting married um i'm
gonna go i'm gonna
be groomsmen we're gonna hang out and
swim and
chillax you know some play some video
games maybe
smash bros meta who knows so so let me
ask you don
is that the person that you want to be
yeah yeah it is especially
it's especially because it is like a
especially these people
these people i'm going to um luckily
throughout the years i've been able to
acquire
uh companions in my dnd campaign because
i'm the main character right
um people who just
love me right both the website and the
chad side right
they they understand that like they come
to me with star wars questions because
they know i've read every single comic
book and every single
eu book like i know everything right um
they come to me with comic
recommendations when they when they want
so but they also you know they support
me at track meets they support my
healthy activities
so these guys i i really
want to like be with them so yes
these like that's these people are
awesome so like like
at the end of the weekend are you gonna
feel drained
or be filled with self-loathing
um
this this kind of gets into like a
different
material uh
because and i it feels weird you know
we're already a bit into it and opening
up a new can of worms is a bit weird
but especially this past few years it's
been really hard
connecting the people who like actually
love me but like feeling connected
um
because there are times when i'll go
hang out with my best friend brian right
and then you know something will go
wrong
or um you know specifically
uh he'll ditch me or like something like
that will go on and i'll come home and
i'll just feel like
awful i'll just feel like wow this this
really sucks because when
when i have so few of like the real
friends
when my own mind senses that it's not
going right it just kind of
spins out of control um it's like it
could be like i can go into this wedding
and i can go
and i can just you know my jokes are
firing off i'm killing it
and i feel loved and i feel accepted and
i feel on top of my game
but if i go and like something doesn't
feel right to me
or it doesn't like i don't feel loved or
something like that
i get i get into pretty deep dark places
and that that kind of
game has been what i've been playing for
like the past
four months um four or five months with
can you help me understand what you mean
by a deep dark place
um
one of you my favorite stream that i've
watched of you
was the suicidality one because
it explained the the phases and the
spectrum
of all of it and how every single one is
dangerous and every single every single
step of it is
important um because
i think one of the ways you phrased it
was how i was sleeping like man i don't
want to wake up tomorrow
and i'm going to like actively stop
myself from waking up tomorrow and
things like that
i'm like on the left side of like i
don't want to wake up tomorrow because
if it gets to that point it's where i'm
like kind of just running through in my
head
i feel that like man i don't want to go
to sleep i don't want to wake up
tomorrow so i'm just like i'm just going
to stay up but i don't want to i don't
want to stay up i just want this night
to be over
and i like end up running through the
circle and
what's helped me with that is writing
actually i've become big
big into writing i actually i i
restarted my high school blog
and i've been writing i've been writing
on stuff like that and
um especially these last like three
weeks
it's been pretty pretty bad because a
lot of stuff
that's happened in the past is coming up
and like specifically my my best friend
uh itching me um i'll just kind of
explain what happened um in new year's
new year's eve of 2000
just just this last new year's eve i had
three buddies that i really really
wanted to hang out with
like each one of them bailed on me and
went to their own parties
and it wasn't like oh like i'm doing
this instead of this dom like come hang
out with me
like i called him i was like hey what
time do you want me to pick you up he's
like oh sorry dude like
i'm so plastered right now i'm already
at this one thing i gotta i'm gonna stay
here and then he hung up right and i was
like
cool like awesome and
then i ended up going to this one other
party with someone else and he ended up
leaving halfway through the party
and like i had to find a ride home
talking you know talking to other people
and
when
i don't think i really processed it then
because
now when something like that happens
i just fall apart i just
i i fall apart and and again i need to
go take a walk
and i need to go take a thing and like
again
when you fall apart what is happening in
your mind
not wanting to exist i'm just going to
be honest i'm just going to be frank i'm
just going to be honest and i
i'm not going to try and because i don't
know who's going to
watch this right it's it's scary
speaking this to the world
um because who knows in a week my
buddies
i'm talking about watch this and i freak
you know they're like why didn't you
talk to me
and it's like dude so continuing
um just not wanting to exist it's truly
like that it's not like man i want to
kill myself
it's like i just don't want to be here i
don't i don't want to
have this you know what is your
experience of existence
in that moment dude it's
it's it's it's weird it
it one one
one way is like i'll like look at myself
in the mirror i'll be like
seeing someone else like look at me like
that like i don't want that
right like it's it kind of gets like
that like i need to get outside right so
i'll go outside
what does the other person see when they
look in the mirror dude that thing is
like i don't know it's not like
something like
it's not like i'm like talking to it or
like communicating
it's like that's just like i look at it
and like that's not me right
so i end up needing like a sensation so
like i'll splash cold water in my face
i'll go outside like feel
wind right if i'm inside there's like no
wind and like if i feel the wind i'm
like okay like cool
cool right um something that i actually
uh do a lot now after watching your
suicidality stream
is i used to i used to want
to just go get drunk i've never drank
before which was the weirdest thing to
me
right and i didn't think much of it
until i watched your suicidality stream
and you're telling me about how
quickly the decision of suicide is how
quickly decision of suicide is made
and how much alcohol propagates that
like how much it
swings that um because one
for some reason i've always been
fascinated quote-unquote like my suicide
side's always been fascinated
with getting hit by a car and like
stepping in front of a train and just
something quick like a
hard impact and i get the sense that
like when i do
like i'll just i'll just free fall and
i'll fall through the air and i'll roll
and then like my life is out of my hands
you know
and like it's it's so it's so weird
because i got
i after watching again after watching
your suicidality stream
um i look back at my life and realize
like that's been a thing
throughout my whole life i'd drive to
track practices or track workouts or
track
meets where i really didn't want to go
i'd say to myself like man i really wish
a car would just hit me like man i just
i really wish i just not have to do
what i'm about to do right and i used to
not think it was a big deal because i
didn't have a plan
right i didn't i'm not planning on
suicide it's not like this and you're
telling me
you are telling me you're like this is
scary right
and then i believed it so instead of
indulging in alcohol when i go on these
walks i'll buy a bunch of candy
i'll just eat all the candy i'll drink
soda
um i'll you know get an energy and i eat
healthy i drink milk
so like these moments i kind of like
indulge myself and
step away from that kind of stuff so
anyways sorry how long have you been
having these um
thoughts of just wanting to escape from
your situation
um a long time
a really really long time it's not it's
not like an everyday thing
yeah do you do you remember how old you
were when you first had these kinds of
thoughts
i guess the first like prevalent
sentence of like i want to escape
was my had to have been
sophomore year of high school because i
had dreads i had long dreads
back in high school it was super cool um
i was driving and i just finished a
track meet and we actually won the track
meet and i destroyed
i was carrying the big trophy i had four
gold medals
and we went to we went to a restaurant a
popular burger joint
that it's tradition in my community that
when when your sport
your team does well you go to the burger
joint right you go eat the burgers
and we went to the burger joint the bus
dropped us off and everything
and had a great time when i was driving
home
i just felt so alone and i just felt
like everyone there was just like
congratulating me only because
um because i was an athlete and i was
good right
um because i also i grew up in a really
really white area and like they only
talked to me because i was black and
things like that
and i was driving and i was driving and
i just i started speeding up
i was like i don't want this i don't
want this or i want this and there was a
there was a stone wall
at the end of the street and like i was
fixated on like driving into the stone
wall
and just like getting in a car wreck
and i ended up slowing down you know i
didn't i didn't go through with it but i
think that was like the first
like sentence of like i don't want this
like first like conscious thought
because i guess you can you know we
could talk about escapism through movies
and video games
throughout my whole life like that was
the first time where it like
manifested into action you know yeah
sounds quite scary yeah
and i just again like i don't know i
didn't really acknowledge it
until you know recently where i was like
oh wow
like so dawn that's the first time it
became manifest
but i feel like we've talked about
the sentiment of i don't want this
before over the course of this
conversation
does anything come to your mind about
what we've talked about that you really
didn't want and really didn't like
yeah i mean especially within this
conversation like my own parents
didn't want my parents uh
a life situation i didn't want to be
poor growing up you know
i didn't want to move around a bunch um
i mean even if you really if you really
look deep into what we've talked about
but i can no because like i didn't want
to be a track athlete
i had before i was forced to be a track
athlete in a sense by my mom
um i didn't i d sometimes you know
i don't want to be black especially
growing up around here
um with with my own dad i mean it's it's
the little things because we'd be at a
gas station right
i'm like six one right i'm 12 years old
and i'm like six one
my dad's still i'm still like that's
still 5-2
and all my younger siblings are tiny
white people right
and we're at the gas station getting
drinks and treats
and i put my stuff next to my siblings
the register
person said like is he with you to my
family right
um because you know no fault on them
because i looked like a young man trying
to sneak some
kibbles and freaking with this with this
nice white family right
so it's like even a sense of like i
don't want to be white or black
i want to be white you know and like
dude i remember
oh my gosh this is a weird memory that
just showed up i remember
wanting my hair to look like justin
bieber's because it wouldn't because
everyone loved justin bieber i was a kid
i was like man i want to look like that
but my hair curls you know my hair
doesn't
do that right i remember getting like
gel
and like making it like a mohawk like
like like all the other kids in like
2006 you know 2007
they all have that like spiky mohawk and
they're wearing their monster shirts
right
and i wanted to look like that because
that's what everybody else looks like
you know
and my siblings didn't even look like me
you know no one looked like me growing
up
and i guess like even that can be like a
sense of like i don't want this
i don't want to be you know to be or
not to be what makes the difference
that's that's one of my writing that's
from that's from my blog so
maybe i'll post a link in chat go read
my blog
all right don so i i think um
thank you so much for sharing all that
uh
don't worry you know for what it's worth
i i say this with love i think you'd
look
absolutely ridiculous with the justin
bieber haircut
he did i looked so bad i went to the
museum with it because my friends were
taking me to the museum
it was so bad dude oh
poor poor ten-year-old dom he just
wanted to be cool he just wanted to look
good
you know and i i think i think here we
see the
you know the stuck between two worlds
right like it makes sense man like you
have
you have this conflict you really are
like the chosen one in
in the last of you're like the last of
the uchiha it's like do you want to be
in
do you want to be like one of these good
homies from konoha like which one do you
want to be i'd rather be
freaking i'd be sure i'd be shikamaru
i'd want to be shikamara if i was a
naruto character but
it's tough dude because i i mean i i'm
seeing the
the you know 10 year old with justin
bieber haircut
or the bass playing dreadlock
style
oh the two the two sides of the same
coin man
same person though that's the craziest
thing to me it's like it's
all side that's the same person that's
all within me you know
it's hard to like hate one side of it
and be like oh
i can't do that because that's it's i
truly want that right
that's something that not it's not
foreign right so
don i'm gonna actually disagree with you
a little bit
i don't think either of those is you
okay i think it's fine for you to want
those things i think that want is
genuine but i think actually your
journey is about figuring out who you
are
not what you want to be what you want to
be is not who you are
it's what you want to be
i know it sounds kind of weird but like
i don't think either of those things is
you
make sense you are not an orc and you
are not a human
you're a half orc it's its own thing has
its own racial bonuses
has its own stat adjustments
and play a half or like you're gonna
lose dude if you play a half work like a
human
you're gonna lose oh no right so i think
it's like justin bieber haircut bass
playing anime t-shirt
milk drinking i actually i almost
i almost wore my house moving castle
shirt on stream yeah and i've been like
oh no
i can't do that right and i i don't know
exactly what i mean by that i don't know
how you figure out who you are
but i i do think that i am getting the
sense of
um you know just in terms of the you
know it sounded like an ad for the
suicidality stream
which is kind of dude it's awesome dude
that stream
literally changed my life literally so
you know i don't
i should probably say this for legal
reasons but seriously don
i don't know if you've ever worked with
a therapist i don't know if you you know
if you're in college and stuff there may
be like student health resources i think
it's like not a bad idea
um especially in your case i think
there's a lot that you could work
through in terms of your parents divorce
kind of figuring out who you are and
most importantly if you really do having
thoughts of not wanting to be there is
actually like a normal human experience
uh going to bed and wishing you never
wake up is a normal human experience
and also you know driving down a road
and speeding up and looking longingly at
a brick wall is [ __ ] dangerous
right and and so this has been my
experience as a psychiatrist which is
like it's almost like
rng it's like you're opening a loot box
and 99 times
out of 100 you won't you'll slow down
but the whole point of that suicidality
stream was explaining to people that
like
it can be and ultimately it's usually an
impulsive decision
i'm not worried about you like in this
moment it doesn't
you know i'm not gonna pick up the phone
and call 9-1-1 because i'm not getting
that sense from you and at the same time
it's worth taking very seriously
um i also don't want this
conversation to turn into that i think
we're still talking about you
and and what i'm hearing from that is
it's just a part of who you are i think
it's a
manifestation of some of you trying to
figure out like who you want to be and
what you want
i am detecting one hell of a some scar
though that there's something really
here about like
i don't like this i don't want it this
is not
and and it's interesting because you
really describe it
um like a trigger right like if if you
have
an interpersonal letdown
by someone that you care about you feel
very acutely unloved
and that that can feel like a very
intolerable state
um that is absolutely something that it
is worth seeing a therapist about
because
the real the real thing there is you
know we don't we haven't asked you much
about your personal relationships but
the reason i think that's really work
worth working on if you or anyone else
has that kind of experience is that
if you do wind up in a romantic
relationship that's important to you
that will rear its ugly head because
they are not going to be available to
you 24 7.
right so you're going to get that thing
is going to be triggered even
if you're in a relationship with someone
who really loves you and cares about you
so understanding that experience is kind
of
important and being able to work through
it
you know i
i feel like i should advise you or guide
you in some way what do you think don
is it enough to talk about what we
talked about or do you want some sort of
like
plan it's been it's been it's been nice
to just
talk about it um because i've tried
talking about it with people in my life
but it never
came out like this in like a cohesive
way
you know always be like i'll start
talking and we'll hyper focus on one
thing
and i'll feel like nothing happened you
know like i didn't talk about anything
actually
um so much as like a plan
i i'm a bit unsure like again like
you're kind of just like disagreeing
with me in like the sense that i'm i'm
not who i want to be like that's that's
a that's a cool thought like i've never
thought about that
and like a big reason i did want to
reach out was i i saw how you talked and
like
bug ideas out of people you know with
your your probing questions
and i was like man like that's that's
awesome and like even like the life
coaches
like i think those would be you know
they're trained to do the
basically the same things and like that
i don't
i don't think i'm helpless you know i
don't think
like sometimes sometimes i do feel like
chained to the ground
right and like all these chains or my
vices you know
like i don't i think i think the key is
within me to those chains you know and
like i have i have to find them
whether or not i go like a psychiatrist
isn't going to fix me
psychiatrists will help me fix me right
a psychiatrist will do all that within
their power to
fix me like that kind of applies to you
like i don't i don't think
i don't think anything that we figure
out within you know the next whatever
minutes we have left or
we do is going to be like the golden
standard
it'll definitely help and anything you
do say that helps but like again
i think listening has helped and like
just discussing
and a throwback back and forth and
talking to someone who knows nothing
about me
like exploring me with that person is i
think valuable and i've
it's like you have helped in a sense
you've made me feel better within as
well like as
as cheesy as that sounds like that
morale bonuses are no jokes
well set yeah so don i'm very happy to
hear that uh
uh and i think i think that you know
that if if you take one thing away from
the conversation it's
you know what you kind of said about
you're not who you want to be
because yeah and and because i i think
that like who you because i know it
sounds kind of weird but i think twitch
chat knows the real you
that's scary i think i know the real you
and i think that dude's absolutely a
chat he's not a chat in the way
that like you're you know not in the
traditional sense but i i think we've
gotten to see the real you today
and i have like absolute faith in that
person i think the only problem is you
get so confused
about being what you think you should be
like being human or being orc
either direction that you don't really
acknowledge that
you're really a half work because i
think it's fine for you to have a
you know house moving castle t-shirt
when you play bass
and i think we we actually all know we
know who you are i mean you've made it
pretty clear
yeah from the get-go that you can eat
healthy
and like you know take care of yourself
and be physically in shape and learn how
to play
bass guitar and spend you know weekend
here there watching attack on titan like
that's act that sounds great
sounds sounds like you're done actually
you know
like and that's that's the really weird
thing which i'd really
encourage you to think about is that you
have all these goals for like what you
want to be but like
i think if you just keep on growing the
person that you are
as opposed to striving for a particular
goal you'll
end up in a really good place
i think if you even i know it sounds
kind of weird but i think you're in a
pretty decent place it sounds like you
do deal with a lot of like negative
emotions that can come up
but you'll you know that process
how can i say this
you know the goal the way you deal with
those emotions is by
living through them with a certain
amount of like
thoughtfulness and attention right like
it could be journaling on your blog
it could be seeing a therapist it could
be you know
talking to your coach i don't know if
your parents know about your struggles
it sounds like they kind of don't but
like that's where you know giving them
an opportunity to like
letting your dad be your dad you know
telling him hey dad
did you ever like think that like maybe
playing games like did it ever interfere
with your life because i feel like
you know sometimes like you know you
tell them the story you told us about
the coach and the training schedule and
stuff like that
tell your mom right and be prepared for
them to not
be able to listen to you because your
mom will be like what the hell is wrong
with you
stop playing games right just stop so
you'll get that from your mom sorry
whoops
just turn off the computer silly yeah
but i mean
you know i i think it could be a really
like connecting conversation to ask your
dad like really
not in a judgment sort of way but say
hey dad i'm struggling with this did you
ever struggle with it
and i think the last bit that i would
tell you is you know on a given day i
know it sounds kind of weird but i think
when you think about the goal
you can afford to lose a day you can
afford because
well remember the attack on titan binge
is not a
you don't binge the whole week in a day
you binge one day and then the next day
can i afford to watch attack on titan
yeah i can kind of get away with it
and then the next day can i kind of get
away with it it's like yeah i can get
away with it
and so i if there's one question that i
encourage you to ask yourself is that
when it comes to a given task as best as
you can
with awareness ask yourself who do i
want to be today
do i want to be someone who spends this
hour
watching attack on titan do i want to
spend the day
being like what's more important to me
on this day maybe that's actually the
better question
and you may be surprised this is going
to be challenging but you may be
surprised because oftentimes the answer
may be
it's actually really hard for me to go
and meet up my friends
meet up with my friends down the street
and actually like on this day and in
this moment this is actually what i want
to do
there can be self-loathing that comes
with that which is fine
but you don't want to like pile up the
self-loathing and then experience it at
the end of the weekend i want you to
like
deal with each piece as it arises
and really just think about you know who
do you want to be today
and i think you will find that like the
answer will be a half work like you're
not going to be an orc and you're not
going to be human
today i do today i want to practice bass
and you know what today
anime is more important than bass and on
another day bass is going to be more
important than anime
thoughts thank you thank you i mean
that's first thought is thankfulness i
mean
that's that's some powerful stuff i like
i really like the idea that i am not
what i want to be you know
it's not it doesn't define
who i am like who i am is the person i
wake up as
you know and that can change you know
the ability to change
is hard but powerful you know
it's slowly i always i like to say well
there's a quote
history turns on hinges and i
i think that's the same for people as
well
you know it takes data day by day to
[Music]
become yourself you know and as long as
i'm
taking two days to become this person
and two days to become
the other person i'm always going to be
one day in the middle you know
and so i'm always going to be
just in that weird friction place or you
know i can
kind of like accept my person in the
middle you know instead of
they're like oh i need to only be
athlete chad gekko chad you know
and the other side is like i need to be
a cheesy eating
vermintide two player or whatever you
know who cares like
i'm you know i'm thankful and it's like
it's also something to chew on right
because within these like these dark
weekends like i feel like i just sit and
like again just look in the mirror or
not know what to think about and then i
end up thinking about things i don't
want to think about
you know hard things hurtful things you
know and
having that kind of sense of mind
that i can kind of like direct where my
thoughts are going
it gives me comfort you know gives me
stability i think so i thank you for
that
well you're very welcome don
you're kind of a gig of chad yourself
you know what
i did not i know it's
kind of weird but what makes you think
i'm a giga chad
dude i have a personal belief that chad
it's a mentality thing it's not a
physique thing it's not a what is the
mentality of a giga chad
i raise others up that's the thing i
mean it kind of that kind of
ties into you know what my dad did for
me but like
we're on this planet together bro like
let's raise each other up when i think
about you know people at the gym
help out the weaker one you know or the
person who's not doing good form just
helping each other out that's a geeky
chat you know not the
200 pound person who's only looking at
himself you know 200 pound uh
bodybuilder you know so when i think
when i think of giga chat i think of
people like you you know who's kind of
who has his life set up has his life in
a situation
that can you know he can live the rest
of his life
than you know on the side like you said
you're not a streamer
here you are on twitch helping out
little me
you know with with my mentality and how
many people are watching what
5k people watching you know
who knows if two people in there are
being changed to me that that's that's a
good chat so when i say you're a giga
chat i
that's that's what i think so i'm sure
that i look like a
giga chad from the outside but i would
say to you don that
you and i are exactly the same and
and i i'm not just i know it sounds kind
of like oh like that's what a giggy chad
would say
you know i got that i understand that
yeah but but i think this really
importantly needs to be understood
the problem dawn is that when you wake
up
and you try to be anything that's the
mistake
like you are what you are right and in
that moment you need to ask yourself
like what do i want to do right now
because we think about who i am is
something that's longitudinal over time
but it's not who you are is only present
in the moment so i'd agree with you that
a lot of giga chads have a mentality and
that mentality is to not try to be a
chat at all but just like what do i want
to be in this moment
devote yourself fully to like when you
were like today i don't know where you
are what time zone you're in but it's
friday
right it's 2 15 in central time
and so like what are you gonna do for
the rest of the day that's who you are
you cannot like who you are is defined
by your thoughts and your actions
more importantly your actions and so
like what are you gonna do today
and be like and it's okay for you to
like
you know be a d-gen person from time
like i do it too
you know like dinner for me last night
like oftentimes i eat healthy but dinner
for me last night was like a leftover
taco
and like a glass of milk and some indian
snacks because it was just
it had been a long day and then today
i'm gonna like eat better
you know and and so just you are you're
already exactly what you need to be
and the giga chad is one who realizes
that that it's okay to like not be
where you want to be i like that
right and like the more that you like
are you gonna be a professional athlete
one day sure why not
but today are you going to be someone
who does your practice or not because
forget about the professional athletes
like what are you going to be today
yeah yeah
powerful stuff you can't can't skip
today man
it's i always want to montage rocky
montage my way
through through life you know then show
up at the end
but exactly so
so one of my mentors once told me that
no one wants to write a book everyone
wants to
have written a book yeah
that's the problem with the goal
mentality right you want like oh i want
a backyard i want a barbecue
you want you want to be at the end like
you want to be at the end of the story
no one wants to live through it yeah
dude
it's true and the biggest paradox is
it's the people who chase the end that
never get there
and it's the people who let go of the
end that are the ones that become the
giga chats
so i do you meditate i i've been trying
to
um usually in the mornings sometimes i
just fall asleep and it's
i always laugh myself that's okay so if
you fall asleep
while meditating um
i that just means your body needs sleep
so so that's okay
um but i i'd give you one practice
uh let me just think about this
so you say that sometimes you look in
the mirror
and you don't like what you see
yeah it's it's like a mix of like not
liking what i see and like not
recognizing it and that it's kind of
like why i don't like it like
it's not it's not me you know it's not
i just don't like it you know whether or
not how i get there
i don't like it so i know it sounds kind
of weird but i'd say do any one of our
meditation practices
like uh alternate nostril breathing or
anything like that
and then i want you to go and look in a
mirror and then
you're gonna say to yourself that's not
me which is great then i want you to go
and sit and close your eyes and then ask
yourself
what about that person is not you and if
that isn't you
then who are you
and try to figure out like if this
because i agree actually
what you see in the mirror is not you
then
who are you
be careful about doing this when you're
in a dark place though okay the reason i
say like doing alternate nostrils
do something else first because if
you're in a dark place what you'll
notice you can even do this
but what you'll notice is that all of
the things that are not you
or all of the things that you loathe
about yourself i wish i was this i
should be this you don't want to like
give in to that so in a calm way
just look in the mirror and try to see
like is this me
and if not then what am i yeah
i like that seems easy enough you know
so if you fall asleep during formal
practice it seems like you're a
contemplative guy
so i'd say that you may be someone who
benefits from a non-formal meditation
practice
i definitely recommend one for you down
the road but for now
like put some structure around your
thoughts
and every day like you look in a mirror
every day
yeah so then i'd ask yourself what am i
today
and is this person me
you know and that can be your meditation
for now
are you giving us a link to your blog by
the way
uh oh muted
gg
okay we're sol can't hear you
hello yeah there we go is it is it back
to normal
it sounds different but it's like
echoing but don't worry about it i mean
we're basically just get send your link
all right all right
i just posted it do i just post it in
chat oh is are you dom windu
i am don windu it may be that you can't
post a link because mine is
showing is edited okay
okay so this is what you message dm it
to me i may be able to post it
um it's my old high school blog so
you know if you want people to read it
yeah please go ahead read it
okay um yeah so dom thanks a lot for
coming on man
oh no thanks for having me you guys
really
you know put a smile on my face and
that's that goes a long ways
for a lot of people so i'm gonna leave
one last thing for you
okay this could be hard but i want you
to recognize that at some point
somewhere around down the line someone
here
may be listening to you and be like wow
dom seems a lot like me
or maybe they'll think he isn't because
he's he's more chat he's
chad touched and i'm not but
dom i'm gonna put some awkward
responsibility on you which may be a
little bit unfair but i
think you need to learn how to
be the person that you really want to be
if that involves playing bass
then learn how to play bass and then
come back and
tell us what you've learned or how
you've grown
i know it's it's a lot of responsibility
but i i want people to understand that
like if they connect with you like
you now have a responsibility to each
and every person
who's watching to see if like
you can do it and maybe this is a
mistake maybe i'm burdening you too much
but like
there are people out there who are going
to think that it can't be done
and you need to prove them wrong
i could do that you know what
everyone you know
it's crazy to me to think that
someone else has invested you know
someone i've never met
is now invested in me
and
always you look up to heroes and media
who
do what you're asking me to do and
i'm i think i'm willing to commit to
that i'm willing to commit to
not only improving myself for myself
but for someone else that that seems
pretty good
like for me you know to me good
really figuring it out i can i'll accept
that okay cool
thank you very much because i can't do
it alone bro
i'm here for you man awesome i'll do it
for dr k
leader do it for for twitch the twitch
chat
oh man for the chatars the chat ours
i'll do it for you boys i'll do it for
you boys man
let's go freaking go let's go
absolutely
take care man i'm getting pumped i'm
getting pumped okay good so then do
something
good for the rest of the day man
i'm excited that this is a new
wow amazing thank you doctor okay
good luck thank you have a good one bye
see you guys all right chat let's go you
guys heard it from dom
right so like for each and every one of
you
we're not gonna let dom do it alone
cause he may need us